---
layout: poem
title: Plantation Vermin
editor: Steve Fragano
source: pp. 55-69
---


In Book II of *The Sugar-Cane*, James Grainger forewarns his readers of a peril to Torrid Zone plantations; that being vermin. Whether referring to monkeys, rats, or a myriad of insect species, the speaker includes several references to the quotidian inconveniences and setbacks that vermin pose to white planters' economic, and consequently social, wellbeing. With crops becoming "devour'd" (II, 166), readers can see the consequences of unchecked animal presences on plantations. Beyond the practical knowledge of plantation vulnerabilities in the face of animal life, plantation vermin can additionally be interpreted as one of Grainger's tools to unearth more than just agricultural facets of plantation life.

Referring to some insects as being "From distant islands" (II, 163) and being of "insect-tribes" (II, 156), Grainger utilizes language that keenly elicits ideas of foreign lands; specifically Africa (as "Afric" becomes an explicitly used term). With these double meanings comes a sort of invitation to think of these animal descriptions as more than just verbal demonstrations of the physical world. Such a practice of tapping into an animal's cultural or ideological significances existed and was known as emblematic natural history. 

Writers of natural histories during the Renaissance through the eighteenth-century did not rely solely on empirical data (as is the practice of modern-day natural sciences). Emblematic natural history often took into account the symbolic and metaphorical associations that a culture attached to elements of the natural world. For instance, societies often associate the abstract notions of being sly, sneaky, or cunning with foxes. These associations could be found side-by-side with more empirical, visual, and verifiable observations of an animal or other part of the natural world. This cultural projection of abstract meaning onto nature can lead to a consequent projection of a society's fears, hopes, dreams, etc. Tenets of emblematic natural history could exist in parts of Book II, and they can reveal Grainger's work as more than just a manual about plantation management.

If the animals and insects of the plantation can come to signify more than just the actual fauna of St. Kitt's, then the descriptions of assembled vermin populations can come to be important elements of Book II. As we have seen earlier, Grainger describes assembled insects as in "tribes," and he also refers to "[B]ugs, confederate in destructive league" (II, 228). The poet mentions "The ants' republic...a villain crew" (II, 229) as well as rats, or as he describes them, "A countless clan" that "despoil the low-land Cane" (II, 63). Monkeys are not without a specific adjective of assemblage, as Grainger warns his readers, "Destructive, on the upland sugar-groves/ The monkey-nation preys..." (II, 34-35). The political terms that accompany vermin groupings can signify deeper meanings of these plantation intruders. Europeans' familiarity with certain kinds of vermin can also affect the terms used to describe their groupings. Grainger's specific and varied language used to describe animal grouping reflects a preoccupation with assembly, and it could be for a good reason.

Fear of slave gatherings and slave revolts were feasible and apparent threats during the years in which Grainger lived and wrote. Tacky's Revolt on the island of Jamaica was one of the crucial slave revolts of the eighteenth-century Caribbean world and occurred only four years previous to Grainger's 1764 edition of *The Sugar-Cane* (see "Obeah"). Before Tacky's Revolt, there was a slave insurrection on the island of St. John in 1733, and slave revolts continued even after the publication of Grainger's poem. From August of 1791 to January of 1804, the Haitian Slave Revolt took place, marking the continued decline of white plantation-owner power in the region. The steady breakdown of traditional plantation hierarchy was a realistic threat that did occur, but to acknowledge this fear and disempowerment was to, in a way, also admit a sentiment of defeat. The ability to assemble is foundational to revolts and revolutions, and the preoccupation with the ways in which animals group themselves can open this text up to significances beyond the cultivation of the ideal sugar plantation.

Grainger's descriptions of vermin threats to sugar plantations become methods through which the author and readers can explore the struggles and doubts that plantation owners developed. When reading the following excerpts, we can more fully understand the uncertainties of slave-owning and the fear of the enslaved by approaching the text with a few focusing questions. How are depictions of vermin metaphorical, and is there enough continuity among metaphors to consider allegorical relationships between the natural world and populations on plantations? How do depictions of vermin subscribe to qualities of emblematic natural history? How do the words used to describe animal groupings change a reader's idea of the animal? Why would Grainger change grouping terms depending on the animal or insect, especially if it is not a common or scientific term used to refer to groups of a specific species? Why could Grainger have chosen to use more subtle means to comment on the organization of humans in the plantation system, as opposed to more explicit ways?

(specific excerpts to be added)

---
