---
layout: page
title: "annotations for Book 4"
editor: Ami Yoon
source: "1764 edition"
---


134.173 And in dread ruin all its inmates whelm?. Improved technology in the seventeenth century facilitated the construction of deeper coal mines in Scotland, where coal was a major domestic export in the eighteenth century. The rising demand for coal quickly exhausted accessible deposits, necessitating deeper mines that extended hundreds of feet into the earth. Unsupported rocks and flooding during heavy rains led to fatal collapses within the underground shafts and tunnels, and poor ventilation meant that flammable gases such as carbon monoxide and methane could ignite the combustible coal dust in the air, causing devastating dust explosions.  

134.175 exhalations of the deep-dug mine. When steam-driven pumps and winders became available in the mining industry, lead was mined in long seams in the fashion of trenches; during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, the steam engine's ability to pump water through underground channels to wind the ore to the surface allowed for mines to be dug deeper. See also note for [internal] Book IV, line 173.  

134.178 Scotia. Scotia, a name for Scotland. Southwestern Scotland had produced lead since the Roman period. The Scottish Habeas Corpus Act of 1701 did not apply to those in servitude in the coal and lead mines of Scotland, who could be bound in serf-like bondage to employers by ancient custom. Such workers could be sold or leased with the undertaking of mining work and were accounted as a part of the inventory. Vagabonds and their families could be seized and returned to work. It was not until 1774 that an Emancipation Act forbade mine owners from accepting new servitudes and provided for the emancipation of existing workers who had served for a certain number of years. Only in 1799 were all miners legally freed.  

134.180 palsies. Palsy, paralysis of the skeletal muscles.  

134.181 Who, on the margin of the the rocky Drave. As Grainger's footnote to this line explains, the Drave, or Drava, is a river in central Europe. It forms the boundary between Croatia and Hungary. Silver was a major mineral output for central European regions in Germany, Hungary, and Tyrol, particularly in the late fifteenth and early sixteenth centuries, until the discovery of gold and silver mines in South America shifted western European attentions further abroad.  

134.187 See them dragg'd in chains. With the chained people, Grainger adverts to Spanish colonial oppression and exploitation of native populations in South America. The Incan empire, alluded to in line 185, extended from modern Ecuador to Chile in the early sixteenth century when Spanish conquistadors arrived and imposed colonial rule. In particular, the silver mines at Potosí in Upper Peru (present-day Bolivia) drove Spanish settlement, and native populations were subjected to the *encomienda* system, in which an *encomendero* accepted tribute and obligatory labor from natives in return for protection. In the early seventeenth century this gave way to a *corregimiento* system that established networks of provincial governors who managed the labor distribution and tributary arrangements. African slaves were also imported and put to work in mines when labor ran short, gradually surpassing the natives in population size. Besides silver, gold deposits were found throughout the Andes, from Venezuela to Chile, and European settlers expanded the extant mining work of the native Americans in both scale and productivity.  

135.207 humours. In classical and medieval medicine, humours denoted four bodily fluids (blood, phlegm, choler, melancholy or black bile) that were believed to determine an individual's state of health and temperament according to their proportions in the body. The term also came to be used more generally to refer to various other bodily fluids and the balance thereof, whether normal or abnormal.  

136.215 Indus. Indus, a river in southern Asia, rising in the Kailas mountain range in Tibet and flowing through India and Pakistan.  

136.229 these uninstructed swains. See note for [internal] Book I, line 9.  

137.246 worm. Guinea worm, or the dragon worm (*Dracunculus medinensis*), is a parasitic nematode acquired by drinking water contaminated by the water flea *Cyclops*, which carries the worm's larvae. The larvae break through the stomach lining and enter the bloodstream, growing to full size within a year. A pregnant female worm lives in connective tissues beneath the skin and eventually will release its larvae into a large blister, usually on the legs or arms. The worm's migration produces symptoms such as itching, giddiness, breathing difficulties, vomiting, and diarrhea. The worm may come out spontaneously with the released larvae, but typically treatment involved attaching the worm to the end of a stick and winding it slowly out of the opening in the skin over the course of several days—this is the "leaden cylinder" that Grainger mentions in line 252. A broken worm causes an extreme allergic reaction that can be fatal, and blisters on the skin may ulcerate and become infected, resulting in an abscess and the "annual lameness" of which Grainger warns in line 255. Today the worm may also be treated through anthelmintics.  

137.255 Moor. Moor, a name for a native or inhabitant of Mauretania in North Africa, which corresponds to present-day Morocco and Algeria. The name also came to be applied to Muslim people of mixed Berber and Arab descent in North Africa.  

---
