---
layout: page
title: footnotes pp 147 to 152
editor: julie
---


147.424 Ethiop. Ethiop and Ethiopia (also Aethiop and Aethiopia) were sometimes used by the Greeks and Romans to refer to a specific people and region of Africa, but Ethiop was used to designate a generically black African as well. Ethiopians also were referenced in a classical proverb about "washing the Ethiopian" or turning black skin white. The proverb and subsequent versions, which were widely circulated in the early modern period and eighteenth century, framed the task as impossible and hence were used in justifications of racial difference and African inferiority based on skin color.  

147.434 English beans, or Carolinian rice;. 

147.435 Iërne's beef, or Pensilvanian flour;. 

147.436 Newfoundland cod, or herrings from the main. 

148.448 This let them cultivate, one day, each week;. In some Caribbean colonies, enslaved Africans were provided with provision grounds or gardens and one day per week to cultivate them.  

148.449 And there raise yams, and there cassada's root. Yams are one of many species of tubers within the *Dioscorea* genus. One of the most important food crops for enslaved Africans in the Caribbean. There are several reasons yams became important to Afro-Caribbean diets: yam crop yields are high, yams are easily stored, and they can be prepared in several different ways. Just as importantly, yams formed an important part of West African diets long before the commencement of the slave trade. As a result, slave traders often shipped large quantities of yams on trans-Atlantic voyages to feed the people on board, and yams accompanied Africans to the Americas, where they were able to continue cultivating them.

148.454-455 There let angola's bloomy bush supply, For many a year, with wholesome pulse their board. Refers to the pigeon pea (*Cajanus cajan*).   Pigeon pea is a drought-resistant crop that historically has been important for small-scale farmers in semi-arid areas. It was commonly grown in the provision grounds or gardens of enslaved Africans because it could survive without much water or attention. It is native to South Asia and was first domesticated in India. By 2000 B.C.E., it also was being cultivated in East Africa, from where it was brought to the Americas, most likely as a result of the slave trade.  

148.449n Ogilvy's America. John Ogilby's *America: Being an accurate description of the New World* (1670).  

149.457-458 ochra...slimy pulp...help disdains.  

149.459-460 potatos...Sweet as the cane-juice is the root they bear. 

149.461 eddas. *Colocasia esculenta* or *Xanthosoma sagittifolium*. The name edda or eddo commonly refers to *Colocasia esculenta*. *Colocasia esculenta* and *Xanthosoma sagittifolium* were often conflated, however. Both plants produce roots that were commonly consumed by enslaved Africans because they were easy to cultivate and had a high yield. In addition to being called edda or eddo, *Colocasia esculenta* also went by the common names dasheen or taro. It is native to Asia but was being cultivated in Africa by 100 C. E. From there, it was brought to the Americas on slave ships, which stocked it as food. *Xanthosoma sagittifolium* also went by the common name yautia and is native to Central and South America.  

149.462 Indian cale, and foodful calaloo. The term "Indian cale" also can refer to the species *Colocasia esculenta* and *Xanthosoma sagittifolium*. Since the seventeenth century, "callaloo" has been used to refer to several different plants. Today, callaloo usually refers to *Amaranthus viridis*, a plant native to the tropical Americas. What the various plants labeled callaloo had in common was the ability of their leaves to serve as edible greens. They are also weedy plants that can survive in a wide range of environments, including wastelands. They formed an important part of the diets of enslaved Africans, probably because they are a hardy and reliable source of food.   

149.463 mint. Plants of the genus *Mentha*, distributed around the world.  

149.463 thyme. Plants of the genus *Thymus*, native to Greenland, Eurasia, and northeast tropical Africa.   

149.463 balm. The name of various aromatic plants, particularly those of the genera *Melissa* and *Melittis*.  

149.456n the black and red.

149.457n they differ from potatos at home, they probably are not European...four kinds, the red, the white, the long, and round. 

149.457n The juice of each may be made into a pleasant cool drink; and, being distilled, yield an excellent spirit. 

149.462n mezamby. Unidentified.  

149.462n Jamaica prickle-weed. Might refer to *Amaranthus spinosus*, a plant native to the tropical Americas that is sometimes known as prickly callaloo.   

150.465 limes. *Citrus aurantifolia*. Citrus fruits originated in Southeast Asia and spread from there to the Mediterranean and Spain. Christopher Columbus brought several citrus fruits to the Caribbean, including the lime.  

150.466 bushy citrons. *Citrus medica*. Citrus fruits originated in Southeast Asia and spread from there to the Mediterranean and Spain. Christopher Columbus brought several citrus fruits to the Caribbean, including the citron.  

150.469 cotton shrub. Commercial cotton (genus *Gossypium*) is produced from several different species, some of which are native to the Old World and others of which are native to the New World. 

150.471 coffee. Coffee is made from the roasted seeds of the genus *Coffea*. *Coffea arabica*, the most widely cultivated species, is native to northeast tropical Africa.

150.474 cocô. Another term for cacao. The cacao tree (*Theobroma cacao*) is the source of chocolate, which is made from the seeds of the cacao tree. Cacao is native to Central and South America and was first cultivated by Amerindians thousands of years ago. Europeans first encountered cacao in Mexico, where the Aztecs placed a high value on it: cacao was prepared into chocolate drinks that were consumed by the Aztec elite, as well as during religious rituals, and cacao seeds were used as currency and tribute. Cacao was first brought to the Caribbean by Spaniards, who established plantations to supply Europe with chocolate. Although some Europeans initially found the taste of chocolate off-putting (the Aztecs did not add sugar to their chocolate), it was being consumed in Europe in significant quantities by the seventeenth century.  

150.474 thy rich pods. Cacao trees produce large pods that contain the cacao seeds, also known as cacao beans or nuts.  

150.475 Tho' years, and heat, and moisture they require. Cacao trees take several years to produce pods that can be harvested.  

150.476 Ere the stone grind them to the food of health. The cacao seeds, also known as the beans or nuts, inside cacao pods are ground up to produce chocolate, which was branded as early as the seventeenth century as a kind of miracle food that would give its consumers health and strength. For instance, see the title of Henry Stubbe's 1662 treatise on chocolate, entitled *The Indian Nectar*, which portrayed chocolate not only as a health food but also as an aphrodisiac. There were also reports from seventeenth-century Jamaica that sailors and others who had to perform hard labor consumed it regularly. It is also possible that maroons or escaped slaves living in autonomous communities in the mountains of Jamaica consumed chocolate as a subsistence food. See William Hughes, *The American Physitian; Or, A Treatise of the Roots, Plants, Tress, Shrubs, Fruit, Herbs, &c. Growing in the English Plantations in America* 131.  

150.478-479 And that kind sheltering tree, thy mother nam'd, With crimson flowerets prodigally grac'd;. Madre de Cacao (*Gliricidia sepium*). Native to Central and South America, used as a shade tree for cacao and other plants.  

150.466n The orange tree. Could be the sour orange (*Citrus aurantium*) or sweet orange (*Citrus sinensis*). Citrus fruits originated in Southeast Asia and spread from there to the Mediterranean and Spain. Christopher Columbus brought several citrus fruits to the Caribbean, including the sour and sweet orange.  

151.487 negro-fugitives...their loss and yours. 

151.489 Phaeacia's isle. Scheria, the island that Odysseus arrives at after his shipwreck, home of the Phaeacians. Whether Scheria corresponds to a real place is unclear, however.  

151.492 Pomona's. Pomona was the Roman goddess of fruit.  

151.493 Flora's. Flora was the Roman goddess of springtime.  

151.498 anana. The pineapple (*Ananas comosus*), which is native to eastern South America and brought by Amerindians to the Caribbean. 

151.500 "Insuperable height of airiest shade". The origin of this quote is unclear.  

151.502 mammey. The mammee apple (*Mammea americana*) is a large fruit indigenous to Central America and the Caribbean.   

151.502n ratafia. An essence used as a flavouring for food and drink, typically extracted from almonds or the kernels of cherries, apricots, and peaches.  

151.502n. *Les apricots de St. Domingue*. The apricots of St. Domingue (French). St. Domingue was a French colony, renamed Haiti after a revolution carried out by enslaved and free Africans succeeded in overthrowing colonial rule in 1804.  

*151.502n *l'eau de noiaux*, one of the best West-Indian cordials. L'eau de noiaux refers to an alcoholic drink made by infusing a spirit with ratafia. "Noyaux" is the French term for the kernels of stone fruits. 

151.502n aperient. Laxative.  

151.502n sweet-meats. Preserved or candied fruits.  

152.504 anthropophagi. A borrowing from Latin that signifies man-eaters or cannibals.  

152.508 The airy phantoms of their friends deceas'd Joy'd to regale on. <!--Was the mammey associated with the deceased?-->

152.512 tamarind...With those tart fruit the sweltering fever loves To quench his thirst, whose breezy umbrage soon Shades the pleas'd planter, shades his children long. The tamarind tree (*Tamarindicus indica*) was native to tropical Africa and western Asia but naturalized to and cultivated in the Caribbean by the eighteenth century. Its fruit pulp was used in food and beverages, including punch, and for medicinal purposes.  

152.513 cassia. Most likely *Cassia fistula*, a tree native to India, Malaysia, and Southeast Asia that was being cultivated in the Caribbean by the early sixteenth century. Used as a purgative.  

152.518 chirimoia. *Annona cherimola*, a fruit originally from the South American highlands.  

152.519 anana. The pineapple (*Ananas comosus*), which is native to eastern South America and was brought by Amerindians to the Caribbean. 

152.502n The English commonly call it *Mammey-sapota*. There are two species of it, the sweet, and the tart. Mammee sapota (*Pouteria sapota*) is commonly confused with the mammee apple. It is a sweet fruit native to Mexico and Central America. Another fruit commonly confused with the mammee apple and mammee sapota is the nasebery (*Manilkara zapota*), also known as the sapodilla or the nispero. It is a sour or tart fruit native to Mexico, Central America, and Colombia.  
