---
layout: page
title: "annotations for pp 87 to 95"
editor: Ami Yoon and Julie Kim
source: "1764 edition"
---

88.12 eldest birth of Time. January.  

88.24 Dryads. Wood or tree nymphs in Greek mythology.  

88.25 broad-leaf'd china. The china-root plant, *Smilax china*, which is native to China and valued for its medicinal properties. Whether *Smilax china* L. grew in the eighteenth-century Caribbean is unclear, however. The genus *Smilax* today contains approximately 350 species, which are sometimes difficult to distinguish from each other. Moreover, recent studies of the *Smilax* genus in the Caribbean do not show the presence of *Smilax china*, although the species *Smilax viscifolia* Duhamel is commonly known as "China root" in Jamaica.  

88.17n a giant, of that appellation, carrying our Saviour, in the form of a child. A reference to the legend that St. Christopher, whose name means 'Christ-carrier,' was a giant who once carried Jesus in the form of a child across a river.  

88.25n sarsaparilla. Refers to various species of the genus *Smilax* native to Central and South America. Spanish conquistadors named it *zarzaparilla* and learned from indigenous peoples to use it as an antisyphilitic. Also used to flavor drinks, including root beer in the nineteenth century. Grainger may have been referring to the species *Smilax regelii*, commonly known as "Jamaica sarsaparilla."  

88.25n lignum vitae. The hard, dense wood of the guaiacum tree, *Guaiacum officinale*.

89.31 M***. Colonel Samuel Martin (1694/5-1776), Antiguan-born British plantation owner and author of *Essay upon Plantership*, which was first published in Antigua around 1750. The *Essay* described Martin's methods of sugar planting, as well as proposals for improving or making sugar cultivation more efficient, and served as an important source for Grainger.  

89.33 spleen. From the Greek *σπλήν* and Latin *splen*, designating bad temper or a melancholy temperament.

89.25n East-Indies. The whole of Southeast Asia to the east of and including India.  

89.25n gout. Metabolic arthritis, frequently in the joints of the large toe, resulting in painful inflammations caused by deposits of uric acid crystals.

89.25n palsy. Paralysis of the skeletal muscles.

89.25n sciatica. Irritation or inflammation of the sciatic nerve. Causes severe pain from the lower back to the legs.

89.25n obstructions. Blocks in any tubular organ or structure, such as an intestinal bowel blockage, which causes vomiting, distension, and abdominal pain.

90.59 Palaemon's fate. Palaemon, also known as Melicertes, was a Greco-Roman sea-god. According to one legend, the goddess Juno killed Melicertes by boiling him in a cauldron; in another, Juno drove Ino, Melicertes' mother, and Melicertes mad, causing them to throw themselves into the Saronic Gulf, whereupon they were changed into marine deities. Ino became Leucothea, and Melicertes was renamed Palaemon.  

90.61 hydra. A mythic water snake whose multiple heads could regenerate if severed. Hercules killed the hydra as the second of his twelve Labors. The term also signifies a difficult task.

91.81n Bagasse. The crushed stalks that are the byproduct of milling sugar-cane. Rich in cellulose, bagasse can be used as fuel and cattle feed.

91.84 Palaemon. See note for [internal] Book III, line 59.

92.107 AEthiop-brow. Aethiop and Aethiopia were sometimes used by the Greeks and Romans to refer to a specific people and region of Africa, but Aethiop was used to designate a generically black African as well. Aethiopians also were referenced in a classical proverb about "washing the Aethiopian" or turning black skin white. The proverb and subsequent versions, which were widely circulated in the early modern period and eighteenth century, framed the task as impossible and hence were used in justifications of racial difference and African inferiority based on skin color.    

93.108 Phosphor. The morning star or the planet Venus when found in the sky before sunrise.

93.118 eyes. Sugar-cane buds. To produce new sugar-cane, stalks of sugar-cane with buds on them were planted in the ground.  

93.127 junks. Stems or stalks, a gathering of stalks.

93.128 wane. Also wain. A large open vehicle or wagon drawn by horses or oxen and used to carry heavy loads, especially of agricultural produce.  

94.131 Lincoln-plains...Lincoln...Dyer. John Dyer (1699-1757), Welsh painter and poet, author of the georgic poem *The Fleece* (1757), which Grainger reviewed in the *Monthly Review* (April 1757). Dyer was the rector of the parishes of Coningsby and Kirkby in Lincolnshire, a county in eastern England, when he died.  

94.148 hind's blithe whistle. A hind is a farm servant or agricultural laborer.  

95.153 Annan's pastoral hills. The Annan is a river in Dumfries and Galloway, a unitary council area in southern Scotland. Annan is also the name of a royal burgh at the mouth of the River Annan.

95.160. Ceres. Italo-Roman goddess of growth and agriculture.

95.164 dog-star. Popular name for Alpha Canis Majoris, also called Sirius, the brightest star in the night sky. The star is closely associated with the hottest days of summer, also known as the "dog days."

95.168n if a hatchet do not immediately strike off the entangled member; or the mill be not instantly put out of the wind. Enslaved Africans who were assigned to the task of milling sugar-cane worked under extremely difficult and fatiguing conditions. Workers had to feed cut sugar-cane stalks through the mill, which contained wooden or metal rollers that crushed the cane and extracted its juice for further processing. Because plantation owners and managers demanded near constant work during the season of sugar-cane harvesting, accidents like the one described by Grainger were common. By "put out of the wind," Grainger refers to the fact that the mill was powered by an attached windmill, which drove the rollers.    

---
